# MS3
## Table Of Contents
* [Summary of the Purpose](#summary-of-purpose)
* [Steps](#steps)
* [Overview](#overview)

## Summary Of Purpose
  The purpose of this program is to consume the .csv file and collect only the valid-data that has the complete information from A - J. The valid data will be saved into the SQLite database file as a table. The invalid data will be saved into <input-filename>-bad.csv file. While running the program, it will constantly count the total numbers of data, number of valid-data and number of invalid-data and save them into .log file.
  
## Steps
  The program starts with asking the user for the file name. Then with the file name program will try to read the file with the BufferedReader and since the program need to write the invalid-data to <filename>-bad.csv, program will create BufferedWriter for invalid data. Then the program connects to SQLite to use the SQLite JDBC. The program will read the file from line to line until end of the file. While reading each line the program will be checking each index of the line which index will be the column of the .csv file. While reading each line, it is going to check each character of the line until the end of the line and when character'""' occurs it means it reached column 5 and this is because column 5 is very long so it is separated with (""). If we reach column 5 we change the b to false so that we can separate with ','. Each column will be separated with the linesplit and will be saved into the each index of the string array. When the program finished checking the line it will increase the received variable by one which will be the total data received. Then the program will check if the line contains ",," string ,which means that there is black column, then it will increase the failed variable by one which will be the invalid-data, and write that data into the <filename>-bad.csv file. If the line does not contain ",," string then it means it have full information so it will increase the successful variable by one ,which is valid-data, and insert valid-data into the database table. The program will then write number of received, number of succesful, number of failed into the log file. THen we will flush the all the information from the bufferedWriter and close the log file writer and <filename>-bad.csv file writer.
  
## Overview
  The approach to build the program was to read the file with the user input, and read each line and check the characters for each line characters to split the columns. To program the MS3 I have followed the Singleton Pattern. The program uses the BufferedReader and BufferedWriter since it has a lot of data to read and write. If the program used the FileReader and FileWriter it will consume much longer time to built. When reading the filename from the user input, the filename can have the space between the names so the program will have to be able to read the filename with the spaces. The program will give an error message and quit the program when the user inputs the filename that does not exist in the doc folder. 
